LONGITUDINAL DIABETIC RETINOPATHY FUNDUS IMAGE DATA SET

http://rod-rep.com - Rotterdam Ophthalmic Data Repository

All data and files that are included are owned by the Rotterdam Ophthalmic
Institute.

* * * * *

This file contains a description of the data set.

The data set contains longitudinal visual field data of 139 glaucoma
patients. These patients were recruited from the Rotterdam Eye Hospital
(Rotterdam, The Netherlands). Informed consent was obtained from all
subjects.

Inclusion criteria:

-   Between 18 and 85 years at time of inclusion.
-   Glaucoma diagnosis. Two of the following conditions are met: pattern
    standard deviation significant at p=0.05, abnormal hemifield test
    result, cluster of ≥3 points depressed at p=0.05 level or 1 point at
    p=0.01. VF defects must be reproducible on at least one occasion.
-   Primary open-angle glaucoma, normal tension glaucoma, pigmentary
    glaucoma, and treated angle closure glaucoma. (Pseudo-exfoliation
    glaucoma was not included.)

Exclusion criteria:

-   Secondary glaucomas except pigmentary.
-   Evidence of SAP VF abnormality consistent with other disease.
-   BCVA > 0.3 (LogMAR).
-   Refractive error outside -10.0 to +5.0 D range.
-   Cataract surgery in previous 12 months.
-   Previous refractive or vitreoretinal surgery.
-   Evidence of diabetic retinopathy, diabetic macular edema, or other
    vitreo-retinal disease.
-   Previous keratoplastic surgery.
-   Diabetes, leukemia, AIDS, uncontrolled systemic hypertension, multiple
    sclerosis or (other) life threatening disease.

Both eyes of each participant were included. Visits were scheduled every 6
months. At each visit, standard clinical ophthalmic examinations were
performed, including visual acuity, intra-ocular pressure, gonioscopy and
ophthalmoscopy. At each visit, standard automated perimetry was also
performed. Visual fields were acquired on a Humphrey Visual Field Analyzer
(Carl Zeiss Meditec) with a standard white-on-white 24-2 field with the full
threshold program. The provided data set contains information on the visual
field and on the individual visual field test locations.
